# Test data

This directory contains test data for the unit tests. Here we document how the data is generated and what it is used for.

All the data is generated by the `gen.sh` scripts in the respective directories.

> [!TODO]
>
> Improve to reuse the generate functions in the `gen.sh` scripts across different dirs to avoid code duplication and change one forget others issue.

# Cheatsheet

Using Makefile to generate or update all the data in one command:

```sh
make all
```

# Description of test data

## x509-cert-pem-noenc

This directory contains a PEM-encoded X.509 certificate and its private key without encryption.

## x509-cert-pem-passwd

This directory contains a PEM-encoded X.509 certificate and its private key with password-based encryption.

## x509-cert-pem-passwd

This directory contains a PEM-encoded X.509 certificate and its private key without encryption. And one more

## pkcs12-cert-emptypasswd

This directory contains a PKCS#12 file with an empty password (literally input nothing and press Enter when prompt, equivalent to `""` empty string). No chain certificate is included. Can consider it as a CA only PKCS#12 file.

## pkcs12-cert-passwd

This directory contains a PKCS#12 file with a password. For the private key and PKCS#12 file, the same password is used. No chain certificate is included. Can consider it as a CA only PKCS#12 file.

## pkcs12-badssl

Download from https://badssl.com/download/ and extract the PKCS#12 files for testing. The password is `badssl.com`. Only client certificate is included, no CA cert.

badssl pkcs12 now has to enable the `-legacy` option to be extracted by OpenSSL 3.0 and after.

## pkcs12-chain-case-1

Including a root CA cert with its private key and a chain of certificates in the PKCS#12 file with an empty password (only the last one has private key included).
